So let's go back now, to our Mutable
Sequence Types Python documentation page,
and looking at that, it might look quite
confusing. The first five operations are
using indexing and slicing, to change
items in the sequence. Make sure that
you're happy using indexes and slices.
Review the videos in section 3, if
necessary, because we'll be using slices
later in this section. I'm not going to
discuss them just yet,
because changing slices will be easier
to understand, once we've seen lists in
more detail. So I'm going to start by
discussing the append method, which is
that sixth line, here in that table.
Now I used the term method there. A method is
the same as a function, except that it's
bound to an object. That means we need an
object, in order to call the method.
We've used a few functions in the last video: we used min and max, and the len function.
When you call a function, you just type
its name, and provide any arguments in
parentheses. For example, len, and even in parentheses,
gives us the number of items in the list
called even. When we call a method,
we tell it which object it's called on. In
other words, which object it should be
using when it performs its function. For
example, the entry we're looking at, in
the table, is s.append and x in
parentheses. So that means that we'll be
appending x to a list called s. We pass x
as an argument, so that the method knows
what to append, but we don't have to use
an argument to tell it which list to
append to, because that comes at the
start, before the dot. Dot notation's used
a lot in Object Oriented Programming, and
we'll learn more about in the OOP
section of this course. Before we learn
how to write our own methods, we'll be
using a lot of methods that Python's
built-in objects have. The syntax is
simple. You start with the object you're
using, then a dot, then the name of the
method. If the method needs arguments, you put them in parentheses after the method name.
So we start with the name of an
object. The documentation uses s because
it's talking about sequence types.
After the dot, we have the name of the
method that we want to call, in this case,
append. If the method needs any arguments,
they appear in parentheses after the
method name. The parentheses are still
needed, even if there are no arguments.
That's the same as when you call a
function. Alright, so back to the code now.
The append method can be used to add a
new item to a list. Now we used append in
the mutable.py program that we've
written previously, so let's go and open that
up - specifically down here, on line 21.
That appended cream, in this case, to our
list. So run the program again, just so we
can see what's happening. When the list
is printed on line 18, it contains seven
items. Line 20 prints the message Adding
cream, to make it easier to see what's
happening in the output, and line 21 uses
the append method to add cream to the
end of the list. So moving on, on lines 22
and 23, when we print the list it now
contains cream, and you can see that in
the output down the bottom of the screen.
Alright, so we've seen what methods are.
They're functions that belong to an
object. In this case, the append method
belongs to anything that's a mutable
sequence type. We've also talked about
dot notation, which is used when you want
to call an object's methods. In the next
video, we'll write a simple program to
demonstrate using append on a list. See
you in the next video.